# Time Series Anomaly Detection for Trustworthy Services in Cloud Computing Systems

## Abstract

As a powerful architecture for large-scale computation, cloud computing has revolutionized the way that computing infrastructure is abstracted and utilized. Coupled with the challenges caused by Big Data, the rocketing development of cloud computing boosts the complexity of system management and maintenance, resulting in weakened trustworthiness of cloud services. To cope with this problem, a compelling method, i.e., Support Vector Data Description (SVDD), is investigated in this paper for detecting anomalous performance metrics of cloud services. Although competent in general anomaly detection, SVDD suffers from unsatisfactory false alarm rate and computational complexity in time series anomaly detection, which considerably hinders its practical applications. Therefore, this paper proposes a relaxed form of linear programming SVDD (RLPSVDD) and presents important insights into parameter selection for practical time series anomaly detection in order to monitor the operations of cloud services. Experiments on the Iris dataset and the Yahoo benchmark datasets validate the effectiveness of our approaches. Furthermore, the comparison of RLPSVDD and the methods obtained from Twitter, Numenta, Etsy and Yahoo, shows the overall preference for RLPSVDD in time series anomaly detection.

## Introduction

As one of the fastest-developing technologies, cloud computing is becoming increasingly ubiquitous. Cloud services, e.g., Dropbox, Google App Engine and Windows Azure, have infiltrated into diverse aspects of the society and the performance of such services enormously affects our daily lives. Amongst other factors, the trustworthiness of a cloud service is critical to its performance and the overall user experience. Therefore, many efforts have been made by cloud service providers and researchers on enhancing the reliability of the cloud services [8], [14], [28], [33]. However, with the ever-growing complexity, cloud computing systems also facilitate the emergence of Big Data [15], [37], which raises huge concern in maintaining the trustworthiness of cloud services due to the greater difficulties in accurate data collection, processing, management, etc. Under these circumstances, the constant monitoring of the healthiness of cloud services is vital and yearns for excellent anomaly detection methods. More specifically, the methods for time series anomaly detection are in greater demand because of the abundance of time-series data within a cloud system and the significant role of the time-series performance metrics in monitoring cloud services.

Time series anomaly detection has been a critical research topic in the domain of data analysis for decades. It has been widely applied to various areas related to the processing of sequential datasets. In cloud computing systems, time series anomaly detection plays the role of the very first messenger who reports abnormal behaviors of the target services. Due to its significance, diverse researches have been undertaken to detect time series anomalies aiming for low false positive rate and high efficiency [12], [17], [18], [20], [33].

In this paper, Support Vector Data Description (SVDD) [30] is investigated for time series anomaly detection in cloud computing systems to assure service trustworthiness. Generally speaking, SVDD is a promising and popular method for achieving efficient, accurate, and interpretable anomaly detection. Its popularity is mainly owing to the fact that it is a non-parametric sparse model, which naturally supports multivariate one-class classification with a concise and easy-to-understand geometric interpretation of the results. Previously, a similar method of SVDD, i.e., Oneclass Support Vector Machine (OCSVM) [29], was invented for the purpose of one-class classification. The authors in [25] pioneered the employment of OCSVM for general time series anomaly detection with a sliding window. However, in cloud computing systems, the huge variety and high velocity of the time series, i.e., service performance metrics, contribute to the great challenges in anomaly detection. As a result, when SVDD is used in time series anomaly detection, its drawbacks, i.e., high false alarm rate and huge computational complexity, become prominent, which hinder its practical applications.

In order to illustrate the high false positive rate of SVDD in time series anomaly detection, a real-world time series “real47” selected from Yahoo benchmark datasets of computing systems [36] is depicted in Fig. 1 with its manually labeled anomalies and the anomalies reported by conventional SVDD. It is worth stressing that SVDD identifies all the labeled anomalies, which are not easily spotted by traditional statistical methods, e.g., box-plot rule [13], because the anomalous points have normal values (between 0.2 and 0.8). It is the unusual shapes and patterns of the values that contribute to the anomalies. Nevertheless, in this example, false alarms dramatically outnumbers the correctly identified anomalies and renders conventional SVDD impractical. Furthermore, from the perspective of computational complexity, over a thousand of Quadratic Programming (QP) problems, i.e., the underlying mathematical problem of SVDD, need to be solved during the process (with sliding window [25]), which leads to the drain of significant computational resources. Both the abovementioned issues are severe and can influence the performance of SVDD in monitoring cloud services significantly.

Consequently, to observe and ensure the trustworthiness of the cloud services, this paper develops a more practical tool for time series anomaly detection by utilizing linear programming SVDD (LPSVDD) with relaxed data description boundary to achieve better accuracy and efficiency. It is found that relaxing LPSVDD (RLPSVDD) results in a Linear Programming (LP) problem, which is much easier to tackle than a nonlinear programming problem. Along with jumping window, RLPSVDD manages to boost the process of time series anomaly detection, and, at the same time, achieve high accuracy. The sufficient condition for selecting valid parameters to ensure the practicality of RLPSVDD is also provided. The main contributions of this paper are:

## Related Work
